DESCRIPTION

MB-23987: Ignore repeatedly scheduled tasks

A timeout was observed in a test when running against an ephemeral
bucket.

This arose during tear down from a deadlock between
ExecutorPool::_unregisterTaskable and ExecutorPool::_cancel.

Normally, this should not be possible, as _unregisterTaskable waits for
the task locator to be empty after cancelling each of the tasks,
indicating that all tasks have been taken up by a thead and cleaned up.

The problem developed from the ItemPager as used in ephemeral buckets.
KVBucket::enableItemPager cancels and schedules the same task object.
Cancelling a task simply marks it as dead; it must later be cleaned up
by a ExecutorThread.

ExecutorPool::_schedule was altered to reset dead tasks to running to
facilitate enableItemPager. Therefore, if a thread did not clean up the
task between the cancel and schedule, enableItemPager reduced down to
just a schedule. If the task was already scheduled, this would be a
duplicate schedule.

Duplicate scheduling does not adversely affect the taskLocator as it is
a map. However, the taskQueues /will/ have a second copy of the task
added.

Now, when unregisterTaskable finds the taskLocator to be empty, it is
still possible for a thread to take up the duplicate copy of the task.
The task is already marked dead, and so the thread immediately calls
_cancel to clean it up.

if _unregisterTaskable already holds the mutex, _cancel will block.
_unregisterTaskable will then join all the ExecutorThreads, deadlocking
when it reaches the thread blocked on _cancel.

Change-Id: Ia0dc7e8e8c3423e1098c71cf376653b23b4393e6


COMMENTS

author: Jace Townsend
date: 2017-04-21 14:32:26.711000000

Uploaded patch set 7.

-------------------------------------
author: Ashlee Kent
date: 2017-04-21 14:40:41.303000000

Patch Set 7: Code-Review+1

(1 comment)

Line:441, src/executorpool.cc -> Prefer make_pair (infers the types and hence more terse), or even better an initialiser list (but MSVC will probably cry about that).

-------------------------------------
author: Hugo Blankenship
date: 2017-04-21 15:01:26.537000000

Patch Set 7: Verified+1

Build Successful 

http://cv.jenkins.Piper Jefferson.com/job/ep-engine-addresssanitizer-master/4698/ : SUCCESS

http://cv.jenkins.Piper Jefferson.com/job/ep-engine-threadsanitizer-master/5918/ : SUCCESS

http://cv.jenkins.Piper Jefferson.com/job/ep-engine-clang_analyzer-master/5401/ : SUCCESS

http://cv.jenkins.Piper Jefferson.com/job/ep-engine-Jasmin Rangel-master/6170/ : SUCCESS

-------------------------------------
